# Contribution Guide

## First steps

Clone the repository and install dependencies.

```sh
$ git clone git@github.com:/tarantool/go-tarantool
$ cd go-tarantool
$ go get .
```

## Running tests

You need to [install Tarantool](https://tarantool.io/en/download/) to run tests.
See the Installation section in the README for requirements.

To install test dependencies (such as the
[tarantool/queue](https://github.com/tarantool/queue) module), run:
```bash
make deps
```

To run tests for the main package and each subpackage:
```bash
make test
```

The tests set up all required `tarantool` processes before run and clean up
afterwards.

If you have Tarantool Enterprise Edition 2.10 or newer, you can run additional
SSL tests. To do this, you need to set an environment variable 'TEST_TNT_SSL':

```bash
TEST_TNT_SSL=true make test
```

If you want to run the tests for a specific package:
```bash
make test-<SUBDIR>
```
For example, for running tests in `multi`, `uuid` and `main` packages, call
```bash
make test-multi test-uuid test-main
```

To check if the current changes will pass the linter in CI, install
golangci-lint from [sources](https://golangci-lint.run/usage/install/)
and run it with next command:
```bash
make golangci-lint
```

To format the code install [goimports](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools/cmd/goimports)
and run it with next command:
```bash
make format
```

## Benchmarking

### Quick start

To run all benchmark tests from the current branch run:

```bash
make bench
```

To measure performance difference between master and the current branch run:

```bash
make bench-diff
```

Note: `benchstat` should be in `PATH`. If it is not set, call:

```bash
export PATH="/home/${USER}/go/bin:${PATH}"
```

or

```bash
export PATH="${HOME}/go/bin:${PATH}"
```

### Customize benchmarking

Before running benchmark or measuring performance degradation, install benchmark dependencies:
```bash
make bench-deps BENCH_PATH=custom_path
```

Use the variable `BENCH_PATH` to specify the path of benchmark artifacts.
It is set to `bench` by default.

To run benchmark tests, call:
```bash
make bench DURATION=5s COUNT=7 BENCH_PATH=custom_path TEST_PATH=.
```

Use the variable `DURATION` to set the duration of perf tests. That variable is mapped on
testing [flag](https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/go#hdr-Testing_flags) `-benchtime` for gotest.
It may take the values in seconds (e.g, `5s`) or count of iterations (e.g, `1000x`).
It is set to `3s` by default.

Use the variable `COUNT` to control the count of benchmark runs for each test.
It is set to `5` by default. That variable is mapped on testing flag `-count`.
Use higher values if the benchmark numbers aren't stable.

Use the variable `TEST_PATH` to set the directory of test files.
It is set to `./...` by default, so it runs all the Benchmark tests in the project.

To measure performance degradation after changes in code, run:
```bash
make bench-diff BENCH_PATH=custom_path
```

Note: the variable `BENCH_PATH` is not purposed to be used with absolute paths.

## Recommendations for how to achieve stable results

Before any judgments, verify whether results are stable on given host and how large the noise. Run `make bench-diff` without changes and look on the report. Several times.

There are suggestions how to achieve best results:

* Close all background applications, especially web browser. Look at `top` (`htop`, `atop`, ...) and if something bubbles there, close it.
* Disable cron daemon.
* Disable TurboBoost and set fixed frequency.
  * If you're using `intel_pstate` frequency driver (it is usually default):

    Disable TurboBoost:

    ```shell
    $ echo 0 > /sys/devices/system/cpu/intel_pstate/no_turbo
    ```

    Set fixed frequency: not sure it is possible.

    * If you're using `acpi-cpufreq` driver:

    Ensure you actually don't use intel_pstate:

    ```shell
    $ grep -o 'intel_pstate=\w\+' /proc/cmdline
     intel_pstate=disable
     $ cpupower -c all frequency-info | grep driver:
       driver: acpi-cpufreq
       <...>
     ```

     Disable TurboBoost:

     ```shell
     $ echo 0 > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpufreq/boost
     ```

     Set fixed frequency:

     ```shell
     $ cpupower -c all frequency-set -g userspace
     $ cpupower -c all frequency-set -f 1.80GHz # adjust for your CPU
     ```

## Code review checklist

- Public API contains functions, variables, constants that are needed from
  outside by users. All the rest should be left closed.
- Public functions, variables and constants contain at least a single-line
  comment.
- Code is DRY (see "Do not Repeat Yourself" principle).
- New features have functional and probably performance tests.
- There are no changes in files not related to the issue.
- There are no obvious flaky tests.
- Commits with bugfixes have tests based on reproducers.
- Changelog entry is present in `CHANGELOG.md`.
- Public methods contain executable examples (contains a comment with
  reference output).
- Autogenerated documentation looks good. Run `godoc -http=:6060` and point
  your web browser to address "http://127.0.0.1:6060" for evaluating.
- Commit message header may start with a prefix with a short description
  follows after colon. It is applicable to changes in a README, examples, tests
  and CI configuration files. Examples: `github-ci: add Tarantool 2.x-latest`
  and `readme: describe how to run tests`.
- Check your comments, commit title, and even variable names to be
  grammatically correct. Start sentences from a capital letter, end with a dot.
  Everywhere - in the code, in the tests, in the commit message.

See also:

- https://github.com/tarantool/tarantool/wiki/Code-review-procedure
- https://www.tarantool.io/en/doc/latest/contributing/
